Doc - Cluster Architecture Improvements (#7992)
arangodb/arangodb: Documentation/Books/Manual/Architecture/DeploymentModes/Cluster/Architecture.md

Cluster Architecture
====================

The Cluster architecture of ArangoDB is a _CP_ master/master model with no
single point of failure. 

> With "CP" we mean that in the presence of a

Reviewer: Explain the origin of this two letter word
```suggestion
With "CP" in terms of the [CAP theorem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CAP_theorem)
we mean that in the presence of a
```

Author: thanks simran

### DBServers

_DBservers_ are the ones where the data is actually hosted. They
host shards of data and using synchronous replication a _DBServer_ may
either be _leader_ or _follower_ for a shard.

They should not be accessed from the outside but indirectly through the
_Coordinators_. They may also execute queries in part or as a whole when
asked by a _Coordinator_.

> See [below](#sharding) for more information on sharding.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See [Sharding](#sharding) below for more information.
```

As you acn see, the _Coordinator_ layer can be scaled and deployed independently
from the _DBServer_ layer.

{% hint 'warning' %}
It is a best practice and a reccomended approach to not run _Agent_ instances
on the same machines where _DBServer_ instances are running.

When deploying using the tool [_Starter_](../../../Deployment/ArangoDBStarter/README.md)
this can be achived by using the options `--cluster.start-dbserver=false` and
`--cluster.start-coordinator=false` on the first three machines where the _Starter_
is started, if the desidered _Agency_ _size_ is 3, or on the first 5 machines
if the desidered _Agency_ _size_ is 5.
{% endhint %}

> Cluster ID

Author: Is this still something current?

Author: asked level2.

    latency. Essentially, this moves some of the database distribution
    logic to the machine where the client runs.

As you can see, the _Coordinator_ layer can be scaled and deployed independently
from the _DBServer_ layer.

{% hint 'warning' %}

> It is a best practice and a recommended approach to not run _Agent_ instances

Reviewer: One can easily miss the **not** in the sentence, let's write it the other way around!
```suggestion
It is a best practice and a recommended approach to run _Agent_ instances
```

> on the same machines where _DBServer_ instances are running.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
on different machines than _DBServer_ instances.
```

When deploying using the tool [_Starter_](../../../Deployment/ArangoDBStarter/README.md)
this can be achieved by using the options `--cluster.start-dbserver=false` and
`--cluster.start-coordinator=false` on the first three machines where the _Starter_
is started, if the desired _Agency_ _size_ is 3, or on the first 5 machines
if the desired _Agency_ _size_ is 5.
{% endhint %}

{% hint 'info' %}
The difference instances part of a single Cluster are supposed to be run in the same
_Data Center_ (DC), with reliable and high-speed network connection between

> all the machines participating to the Cluster.

Reviewer: I don't understand what you try to say here, and it looks like there are some grammar issues as well?

Author: discussed on phone - commited a possible change.  Is it better now, can we consider this resolved? thanks

Multi-datacenter Clusters, where the entire structure and content of a Cluster located
in a specific DC is replicated to others Clusters located in different DCs, are
possible as well. See [Datacenter to datacenter replication](../DC2DC/README.md)

> (DC2DC) for further details.

Reviewer: Is this really officially supported? It sounds like you could use DC2DC to create a distributed cluster, which it is not. Also, do we really support 1:N datacenters in DC2DC? In a discussion with Omar our understanding was that you can use it for 1:1 async replication between two clusters, in a single direction (one way).

Synchronous replication works on a per-shard basis. Using the option _replicationFactor_,
one configures for each _collection_ how many copies of each _shard_ are kept in the Cluster.

{% hint 'danger' %}

> If a collection have a _replication factor_ equal to 1, its data is **not**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a collection has a _replication factor_ of 1, its data is **not**
```

> replicated in other _DBServers_. This exposes you to a risk of data loss, if

Reviewer: ```suggestion
replicated to other _DBServers_. This exposes you to a risk of data loss, if
```

> the machine where the _DBServer_ that is storing this collection permanently

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the machine running the _DBServer_ with the only copy of the data fails permanently.
```

> fails.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

{% endhint %}

{% hint 'warning' %} 
The _replication factor_ has to be set to a value equals or higher than 2

> to achieve minimal data redundancy via the synchronous replication.

Reviewer: Shouldn't this be part of the previous hint?

Author: done - the previous one is a danger one though.

{% endhint %}

{% hint 'warning' %}
An equal-or-higher-than 2 _replication factor_ has to be set **explicitly**
when the collection is created, or can be set later at run time if you forgot

> to set it at creation time.

Reviewer: This should be part of the previous hint at least. Or what is the value in having the information in different hints?

Author: done, thanks

{% endhint %}

{% hint 'tip' %}
When using a Cluster, please make sure all the collections that are important
(and should not be lost in any case) have a _replication factor_ equal or higher

> than 2.

Reviewer: This hint seems pretty redundant

Author: Indeed - trying to communicate something important. I put everything into a single danger hint - let's see how it looks.

The following example will give you an idea of how synchronous operation
has been implemented in ArangoDB Cluster:

1. Connect to a _Coordinator_ via [_arangosh_](../../../Programs/Arangosh/README.md)
2. Create a collection

    127.0.0.1:8530@_system> db._create("test", {"replicationFactor": 2})

3. The _Coordinator_ will figure out a *leader* and one *follower* and create
   one *shard* (as this is the default)
4. Insert data

    127.0.0.1:8530@_system> db.test.insert({"foo": "bar"})

5. The _Coordinator_ will write the data to the _leader_, which in turn will
replicate it to the _follower_.
6. Only when both were successful the result is reported to be successful:

   ```json
   {
       "_id" : "test/7987",
       "_key" : "7987",
       "_rev" : "7987"
   }
   ```

> Obviously, synchronous replication involves a certain increased latency for

Reviewer: How about changing this slightly?
```suggestion
Obviously, synchronous replication comes at the cost of an increased latency for
```

To simplify life of the _devops_ in such a scenario we try as much as
possible to use a _zero administration_ approach for ArangoDB. A running
ArangoDB Cluster is resilient against failures and essentially repairs
itself in case of temporary failures. 

Deployment
----------

An ArangoDB Cluster can be deployed in several ways, e.g. by manually
starting all the needed instances, by using the tool 
[_Starter_](../../../Programs/Starter/README.md), in
Docker, in Mesos or DC/OS, and in Kubernetes.

See the [Cluster Deployment](../../../Deployment/Cluster/README.md)

> for instructions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
chapter for instructions.
```
